Penny Pool

  This is PennyPool, a tool to ease expense sharing among a group.  Its
  main goal is to promote laziness, by making it trivial to administer
  shared expenses.


Introduction

  A well-known problem in groups of people is how to distribute costs of
  collective payments.  What usually happens is that one person pays and
  expects the rest of the group to then pay their respective shares to
  him / her.  This is not a problem for a single incident, but when
  multiple events occur, with different persons paying, it would clearly
  be better to pool these events.  Payments can then be set up within
  the group, such that the number of money transfers is minimized.

  PennyPool helps in administering these kinds of expenses in the form
  of a simple web application.  First of all, the mere fact that
  expenses can be entered in a central location (to which everyone has
  access) makes it clear to everyone who should pay what.  Furthermore,
  it is possible to group these expenses in settlements, which can be
  used as a starting point for actual payments among the members of the
  group.  These payments can also be entered and attached to the
  settlement.  In this way, the progress of the settlement can be seen
  and it is obvious how much should still be paid.


Installation / Upgrade Instructions

  Unpack pennypool-x.x.x.tar.gz in a directory accessible by the webserver
    cd /var/www 		(Debian default)
    tar zxvf pennypool-x.x.x.tar.gz
  since you are reading this file, I guess this step shouldn't be too
  much of a problem.

  If you wish to upgrade PennyPool from a previous version, copy
  the old config.php into the new installation.

  Now point a browser to the site, http://myhost/pennypool-x.x.x/setup.php,
  and fill out the form.  Please note that this form is only for your
  convenience, the potentially required root password will not be saved
  in any form.  The database root user and password are necessary when a
  new database or a new database user must be created.

  Paste the code you see after submission into
    /var/www/pennypool-x.x.x/config.php

  Make sure that the webserver has access to it:
    chmod 644 config.php

  And you may want to disable setup:
    chmod 600 setup.php

  After this step, go to http://myhost/pennypool-x.x.x/login.php?login=user
  and login without a password.  You can later on delete this account.
  (oh, don't forget to create another account before doing this, or you
  won't be able to login again ;-)

  You'll probably want to have an URL that is independent of the
  particular version of PennyPool that is installed.  Now would be a
  good time to create a symbolic link
    ln -s pennypool-x.x.x pennypool
  or simply rename the directory
    mv pennypool-x.x.x pennypool


Requirements

  - php 8.x
  - php ext-pdo
  - appropriate pdo datapase module (e.g, ext-pdo_sqlite)
  - doctrine/dbal
  - a webserver to run the php

Details

  Since this is a very simple package, don't expect it to do complicated
  things.  It is however supposed to work easily, so if you encounter any
  problems, please contact me, frnk@a-eskwadraat.nl

  PennyPool has its own table of personal data, but since there are
  already too many ways to store these (and most of the data is not relevant
  for our purposes), this is a very simple table.  Beware however, should
  you want to access the data through another interface, that the passwords
  are encrypted.

  Within PennyPool, anyone can alter anyones data.  So only use it with
  people that you trust.

  pennypool uses five tables,
    'pennypool_mensen',
		for personal data and accounts
    'pennypool_activiteiten',
		for events
    'pennypool_deelnemers',
		for participant info
    'pennypool_betalingen',
		for person to person transactions
    'pennypool_afrekeningen',
		for groupings of events and p2p transactions

  Only data entered on forms is stored, so in principle accuracy is limited
  by MySQL/PHP.  The 'pennypool_' prefix is configurable, so that
  multiple installations can coexist within the same database.


License

  This software is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
  License, Version 2.

Enjoy PennyPool, all feedback is welcomed.
